# Mini_Project
 “Gene expression profiling and pathway analysis of hub genes in gastric cancer”

Gastric cancer (GC) is one of the major causes of cancer related mortality in the world. Being asymptomatic in nature till advanced stage, diagnosis of gastric cancer becomes next to difficult in early stages of the disease. The onset and progression of gastric cancer has been described to multiple factors including genetic alterations, epigenetic modifications, Helicobacter pylori and Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) infection, and dietary habits. Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) based approaches viz. Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS), Whole Exome Sequencing (WES), RNA-Seq, and targeted sequencing have expanded the knowledge base of molecular pathogenesis of gastric cancer. In order to identify potential biomarker for gastric cancer we took RNA seq data and performed gene expression analysis. In order to analyse gene expression and identify DEGs in gastric cancer, we retrieved 3 normal and 3 tumor condition sample of gastric cancer from European Nucleotide Archive(PRJNA663723). A total of 969 DEGs were obtained. To inquire into the biological processes, functional & pathway enrichment analysis were performed on the identified hub genes. The hub genes were significantly enriched in biological process like apoptotic process, growth and signaling, & developmental process like morphogenesis. These hub genes identified may considered as potential biomarkers for gastric cancer progression needs to be validated through experimental studies.
